# Integrated Disruption Recovery of Drone-Truck Coordinated Delivery System
$\newline$
### Motivation
- Throughout the recent decade, various research studies have proposed to leverage the concept of urban air mobility for an effective construction of package delivery service. The major underlying idea is to lift the typically ground-based delivery service to the third dimension, while addressing problems such as last-mile delivery and recurrent traffic jams in major metropolitan regions around the world. To resolve the relatively short travel range and limited capacity issues of drones, various studies have proposed to further enhance the utility of drones by deploying them with ground vehicles (e.g., trucks) in tandem, referred as Drone-Truck Coordinated Operations (DTCO). 
- Such delivery services, however, are prone to the presence of *disruptions*, in which parts of the service network are affected, e.g., due to extreme weather condition, drone physical failure, drone network delay and etc. These disruptions have negative impact on the original drone-truck delivery schedule and even result in the failure of satisfying customer demand, leading to great economical loss and damage of reputation. It is persumed that the *operational uncertainty* due to unforeseeable disruptions hinders the actual deployment of drone-truck coordinated operations in current logistics industry.
- While an extensive number of studies have investigated on the efficiency improved based on the drone-truck coordination, there is a gap in the literature considering *real-time disruption recovery* of the drone-truck coordinated system, which reroutes/reschedules the involved carriers in a systematic manner to cope with the emerging disruptions while maximizing efficiency. From the perspective of logistics practioners, there is an urgent need to establish a decision recommendation framework which transits from the *efficient* drone-dominated delivery mode to the *reliable* truck-dominated delivery mode in face of disruptions. We believe the construction of such reactive and flexible disruption recovery model is critical to the long-term development and deployment of drone-truck coordinated operations in the field of last-mile delivery.

- From the perspective of decision makers in logistics company, the proposed DTCO Disruption Management Problem is a practical and constructive problem, since it can provide the decision makers with an efficient and reliable delivery plan concerning truck and drone coordination.
- One of the major reason why decision makers postpone the development of the drone-truck coordinated operations is that drones are prone to regulations and disruptions, which will break the original coordinated schedule and leads to a poor delivering service. This kind of "Plan A" (i.e., DTCO) alone may not be convincing and agreeable to them.
- However, if they are informed that the whole delivery process can always be *backed up* by a traditional "Plan B" whenever the disruptions happen, then they may be more willing to adopt the innovative truck-drone coordinated delivery concept.
- Accordingly, there is an urgent need in seeking real-time reactive adjustments to the original truck-drone coordinated schedule, which guarantees safe and reliable operation while maximizing efficiency (or minimizing the cost).
- In general, the recovery approach towards disruptions is to ensure the feasibility of delivery mode in face of the disrupted situation at the sacrifice of efficiency. While drones are efficient to perform delivery tasks, they are more vulnerable to disruption as compared with trucks, thus it is practical to transit from drone-dominated delivery mode to truck-dominated delivery mode in case of disruption. 
- While an extensive number of studies have investigated on the efficiency improved by the truck and drone coordination, there is a gap in the literature considering tactical disruption recovery in the field of drone logistics, and this is the first paper that explicitly handles this issue, to the best of our knowledge.
- In this case, if there is a real-time decision framework that tells them whenever the disruption happens, we can always revert to (or draw close to) the traditional delivery mode and the demand of customers is always guaranteed, then maybe they will be more confident to adopt the novel drone delivery concept and make progress on it.  

### Disruption and Recovery
- Original schedule:
	- An ideal and the most efficient one under no disruption.
	- Generated by the exact method in the latest DTCO paper (e.g., [2,3]), including multiple trucks and multiple drones, but the transportation resource should be constrained, i.e., we have certain number of trucks and drones at hand.
	- Alternatively, this can be generated by our extended model given no disruption, i.e., this is a special case of our model solution.
- Assumption on disruptions:
	- As compared to the traditional trucks, drones are more prune to disruptions.
	- It may be safe to assume that disruptions *only fall to drones*.
- Disruption types:
	- Severe weather condions:
		- Causes: high winds (hard to control), water/rain damage (ruin electrical components), cold temperatures (reduce battery life), low visibility (reduce cameras ability)
		- Model: assume that all of the drones (or drones in specific regions) should resume operation in specific time windows; drones return to the trucks asap; updating some time-related parameters in the model to achieve this effect. 
		- Recovery: in these time windows, only trucks can make delivery to the customers; maybe more trucks will launch from depot to assist the delivery task; may transit from FSTSP to traditional TSP.
	- Drone technical failure:
		- Causes: mechanical failure, telecommunication failure, human intentional attack, sensor failure and etc. 
		- Model: remove the specific drones from the model; updating the set of drones (Set parameter) in the model to achieve this effect. 
		- Recovery: either the other drones or the trucks share their originally scheduled delivery tasks; alternatively, this may leads to some systematic change in the routings of trucks and remaining drones.
	- Drone departure delay:
		- Causes: mechanical/telecommunication/sensor failure but overcome after a while, and etc.
		- Model: update the scheduled departure time of related drones by adding specific lag time; this also only adapts the time-related parameters but does not add any other constraints.
		- Recovery: maybe a systematic rerouting/swapping of drones, or just let the delay propagates less severely among the network.
	- Air exclusive zone:
		- Causes: maybe some important ceremony is going to be held and the region should remain silent? this part needs further though...
		- Model: regions characterized by a center and radius are not allowed to fly; maybe update the location-related parameters.
		- Recovery: if drones are to serve the customers in the zone, then trucks should replace them, which may lead to some systematic changes in routing.
	- All the disruptions are modelled by updating some parameters or sets of the model as the TS paper [1], without adding further constraints.
	- All the recovery approaches are integrated in the recovery schedule and expressed by the decision variables, including the adjusted flow variables (rerouting) and adjusted timing variables (rescheduling), as similar to the ADM research.

### Reactive or Proactive
- Here, "reactive" refers to adjusting schedules of truck and drones at any time during operation, while the "proactive" refers to the case that we can only adjust schedules right before the day of operation, just as our ADM research. 
- Reactive mode:
	- More realistic: some kind of disruptions may happen without any signal beforehand, like mechanical failure and poor weather.
	- Hard to implement: the *state* (characterized by the current locations and routes of drones and trucks and etc.) is needed; how to input the state into the model?
- Proactive mode:
	- Less realistic: one cannot get to know all the disruptions before the day.
	- Easier to implement: we only need the initial state - the original schedule.
- The problem is whether we can formulate an actually dynamic/reactive decision model, which can adjust our decisions in the real time to deal with emerging disruptions.
- Currently I just have a vague idea on this framework and could not tell which paper in DTCO has the Arikan's implementation. But my main idea is to build a real-time reactive model, which receives the current known disruptions and the current state as input, and outputs the recovery plan including recovered routing and schedules. The proposed model can be a superset of one of the latest DTCO model, i.e., if there is no disruption, the solution of the proposed model is just the optimal solution of that DTCO model. I think through some investigations of the literature, this kind of model is able to be implemented.  

### Solution Approach and Outcome
- We can formulate a complete model and solve it exactly by CPLEX or other exact methods.
- The heuristic in this setting may well leverage the scheduled (but maybe infeasible) solution as the initial solution and conduct a neighborhood search on it, as in the ADM research.
- The expected output of the model: 
	- In the best case, i.e., without disruptions, the model should output the best solution (with the least completion time or cost) as the latest DTCO paper (e.g., [2,3]) does.
	- In the worst case, i.e., the case with disruptions, the model should generate feasible solution with the minimum possible loss.

### Reference
[1] Arıkan, U., Gürel, S., Aktürk, M.S., 2017. Flight Network-Based Approach for Integrated Airline Recovery with Cruise Speed Control. Transportation Science 30.
[2] Murray, C.C., Raj, R., 2020. The multiple flying sidekicks traveling salesman problem: Parcel delivery with multiple drones. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies 110, 368–398. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2019.11.003)
[3] Ham, A.M., 2018. Integrated scheduling of m-truck, m-drone, and m-depot constrained by time-window, drop-pickup, and m-visit using constraint programming. Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies 91, 1–14. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2018.03.025](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trc.2018.03.025)
