# Research Proposal for Capstone Project

Hi professor, I have thought about the previous UAV recovery proposal and also conduct some overview on current literature on drone logistics. I really appreciate your timely suggestion on research topic, but I think it may not be a good choice for the capstone project, based on the following reasons:
1. Matching the formulation of airline disruption management to the emerging drone logistics may be incompatiable. Drones indeed share similarities with aircraft and it seems to be acceptable to adapt the formulation of airline operations to drone operations, but the current trend of literature has almost shifted from Drone operations (DO) to Drone-truck combined operations (DTCO), where the latter pattern is fundamentally distinctive from the former one. This transition is natural based on the limitation of drone technology (flight range, battery life, and carrying capacity) and the significant improvement over timespan/cost. In other words, pure DO may be similar to airline operations, but the DTCO adds a lot of complexity to both models and solution methods. I prefer to investigate on the DTCO studies.
2. Currently, the main body of literature is focusing on the strategic planning of drone logistics rather than the tactical planning of involved entities. While there is indeed no paper published that deals with the disruption recovery of drones, I think this makes sense because we are still at the stage when researchers are trying to convince the R&D of logistics company to use their models and make drone logistics to a commercial success. Meanwhile, conducting disruption recovery requires the original schedule but this seems to be inaccessible now. This issue also makes drone operation distinctive from aviation operation.
3. The lack of enough operational practice is also a challenge to conduct research on this topic. I remember the admitted TS paper mentions their intensive communication with their industry partner, and accordingly they can formulate various modelling perspective and constaints based on the emerging operational challenge in industry practice. I think maybe in the near future, when my group in Tsinghua collaborate/communicate with industry partner like JD logistics and Dajiang UAV, the actual technical or operational challenges will be clearer to me, and at that time it may be easier for me to do the detailed operational modelling.

On the other hand, I propose to make some extensions on the DTCO models and lay emphasis on the solution methodolgy perspective. At this stage, the mode "80% solution methodology+20% modelling adaptation" is more suitable to me, based on my previous experience. I would like to start from a well-established/latest DTCO problem, usually TSP or VRP based, and improve solution techniques either by exact method (high-level OR mathematics) or ML-based heuristics (like the deep reinforcement learning that previously used). In addition, this reserach process may contribute to a steady foundation on the relevant models and techniques of basic OR problems, like TSP and VRP.

The model will be based on a well-established/latest DTCO model, which may be a multiple-drone-multiple-truck, TSP/VRP-based model. Regarding the extension on the modelling side, I found an interesting and worth to be investigated direction - the synchronization issue of trucks and drones, discussed below:
- Synchronization between a drone(s) and a truck(s) can become a very important issue because it is directly related to the efficiency of the operation. Depending on the application areas, synchronization is required to, e.g., replenish items for drone delivery, replace or charge a drone battery, and perform maintenance of drone. 
- If synchronization is required, vehicles must arrive at the predetermined location at the same time, or one vehicle needs to wait for the other vehicle at the predetermined location before the vehicle can leave the location. It is not an easy task for both vehicles to arrive at a rendezvous node at the same time. A vehicle must wait for the other vehicle, and this will lead to a significant cost. Currently, most papers consider the case where a drone or a truck waits for the other at the predetermined customer node.
- To reduce the additional cost related to synchronization issue, several approaches are proposed, but not fully explored and investigated yet:
	- En-route meeting: there are few studies that allows the rendezvous of a drone and a truck en route, i.e., meeting at some point in a route, which is not a customer location. There may be some research questions: How is the timespan/cost of en route meeting compared to fixed location meeting, or is en route meeting necessary? If some route does not allow en route meeting (for instance, forbidden to park along the street, right below the overpass), how to add the constraint and adjust the optimal solution? Does the en-route meeting pose any technological constraint, for instance the speed of two vehicles? 
	- Service hub: the service hub, which is not a customer location, is equipped with backup and service drones, and, therefore, synchronization is not required because if a truck arrives at the service hub before a drone, it can travel with the backup drone. The drone that will arrive later will be a subsequent backup drone. In this setting, no synchronization is required but drones and trucks still work as synchronized working units thanks to the backup drones. Can we compare this approach with the en-route meeting approach?

I would like to hear from your advice on the proposed direction, and after that I will write the formal research proposal.